Those are notes about how to extend the decision boundary in an arbitrary way and use it with some commands involving specific aggregates.
In Sharpino, the flow of executing a command has always been essentially based on specifying an extended decision boundary of a command in a way separated from the command execution. It used to be as follows: when the CommandHandler executes the command, it decides on the basis of a consistency boundary that is limited only to the states of the aggregates involved in the command. By this approach, in theory I may still encounter a state that is inconsistent considering a virtual "extended decision boundary", even if such extended boundary has been evaluated before executing the command, because the state when writing to the event store may have changed. I introduced a new feature that allows including, using a particular lambda expression, an arbitrary extended decision boundary that enforces consistency, enhancing the optimistic lock control so that the eventId-based control may include the extended scope as well, without limiting it to the eventId-based optimistic lock control related to the passed aggregates. I am briefly describing this new enforced way to preserve the decision boundary.
Let's take a look at the way a specific "extended decision boundary" typically was part of the workflow in any Sharpino-based program before this feature
If a particular condition is met, the application executes a command, sending it to the CommandHandler component
The CommandHandler retrieves the current eventId (version) of the object/aggregate 
It executes the command on that state, producing a new state and a list of events if the "decision" function says the new state will be consistent (i.e., the execution of the command returns an Ok)
Passes the eventId to the eventStore and the events.
The eventStore stores those events if the last eventId on the event store corresponds to the eventId passed
If the previous step is ok then it feeds the cache with the new state
Then Activates a fire-and-forget task to send the events to a message bus
Finally, it refreshes, still in a fire-and-forget way, any "cached details" that depend on this particular aggregate

In this previous approach, virtually the "decide" part is split into two parts. The first part has nothing to do with event-sourcing per se, which is evaluating the expression "a particular condition is met", where such condition isn't part of the aggregate that has to be involved by new events, nd then a command is executed.
Such a particular condition is still, logically speaking, a decision boundary. It is just related to a scope that exceeds the scope of the aggregate itself and so normally cannot be evaluated by the command itself and by the CommandHandler either.
An example: Suppose that a business rule tries to preserve a sort of fragmentation in the occupied seats and so tries to filter the reservations accordingly. So a rule can be "this row should be fully available for new reservations only if the nearest rows aren't also fully reserved".  The application logic, in the old way, may encode this rule in the condition that has to be met before deciding to execute the command of reserving all the seats in the specific row (which is an aggregate). So before issuing the command, the application may evaluate the state of the rows that are close to the row that needs to be reserved.
An alternative is running multiple commands on different aggregates, whereas only one command actually produces meaningful events, and the other commands are just used to evaluate the constraints (producing "do-nothing" events, or an empty list of events).
By evaluating the state on the extended boundary before running the events, it may happen that the invariant will still be broken. It is still theoretically possible that, after the decision to run the command, the contexts that contributed to that decision (the nearest rows aren't fully reserved) don't apply when the command is actually executed, and the related events are stored. Therefore, the expected constraint/invariant is that a particular fragmentation of the reservations could be no longer valid. The runCommand part of the code cannot avoid this because the decision boundary and the related optimistic lock check on the eventStore are still limited to the boundary of the aggregate involved in the command and not on the previous decision, i.e., other aggregate states that are not part of the aggregate involved in the command.
The fact that the situation is unlikely, or that other alternatives are possible (including using multiple commands on multiple aggregates at once, even if they affect only one aggregate), or the fact that even the rare case of a rule violation is not a big deal, may have contributed to postponing this feature until now.
So now it is available, in the sense that some of the runCommand functions have their related version that accepts a new parameter for it.
The new logic changes the previous workflow a little bit, as follows:
Express the particular condition to be met, involving some aggregates that are part of the decision boundary (but not of the aggregate that will be "hit" by the command and the related events) as a particular lambda expression that, if it succeeds, it will also return a map of aggregateIds, the "last eventId" and the stream names of the aggregates that matters for that decision. If the lambda returns successfully, it means that the condition related to that "extended boundary" applies.
The CommandHandler retrieves the current eventId (version) of the aggregate.
It executes the command on that state, producing a new state and a list of events
It evaluates the lambda that evaluates the extended decision boundary, verifying that it returns an Ok with triples eventId, aggregateId, streamName
It passes the eventId to the eventStore and the events, and also the information related to the extended boundary (eventId, aggregateId, streamName)
The eventstore stores those events if the last eventId on the event store corresponds to the eventId passed, and also if the eventId/aggregateId/streamName related to the extended decision boundary context do match
If all the previous storing operations succeed, it means that the event store will produce a state that is coherent with all the mentioned constraints, which include the aggregate and the extended context.
…

So a little recap.
When running a command or some commands, for certain classes of runCommand, I have alternative implementations allowing me to send an extended scope decision function in a way that such a decision lies outside the aggregates involved by the commands. The resulting state will be consistent not only in relation to the aggregate involved in the command but also from an extended base of optimistic control lock, without relying on a statistical base.